Alrighty, so in this video,
we'll cover step two of developing the CartService.
So let me move in here
and let's open up a new terminal window.
And now let's make use
of this command ng generate service services/cart.
And that will create the appropriate files for us.
Let me just close off that terminal window real quick.
And then under services, there's our new cart.service
that was just created.
And I'll expand the window here for a second
and I'll get down and dirty and start writing some code.
So the first thing we'll start off
with is defining a property here for our shopping cart,
so it's really just an array of CartItem objects.
And then I make use of the square brackets
to make the array empty initially,
I'll take care of the little imports there.
Alright, so that's our shopping cart,
array of CartItem objects.
I'll create this totalPrice, Subject<number>.
And now remember here a Subject is a subclass of Observable,
we can use the Subject to publish events in our code,
and the event will be sent to all subscribers.
Alright, so the CartService, this totalPrice subject,
it'll actually publish events to the subscribers,
and I'll show you the coding for it in a second
as far as how to actually publish the event.
So we'll have a subject for a total price.
We'll also have a subject for total quantity
So I'll kind of do a copy paste here,
and so I'll have totalQuantity right here.
Okay, so moving down here,
let's go ahead and create this method addToCart.
That'll pass in theCartItem.
And what I'll do is I'll write some quick little comments
to myself to kind of keep myself on track.
So we'll need to check if we already have
the item in our cart.
Then we need to find the item in the cart,
based on the item ID.
And then check to see if we actually found that given item.
Alright, so that's the basic game plan.
Let's go ahead and dive in here
and let's start writing the code.
So I'll just set up two variables here
for alreadyExistsInCart, boolean, initialise it to false,
existingCartItem is a CartItem
and initially set it to undefined.
So if the cartItems.length is greater than zero,
then let's go ahead and do some work.
So this work here, we'll do a little cut paste,
move those comments inside
'cause this will all be inside of this little if block
So I need to find the item in the cart based on ID.
There are a number of ways to do this,
but I'll keep it simple just for now,
and I'll simply loop through each one of the cart items
and compare item IDs.
So if the tempCartItem,
the guy that we're looping through right now,
if the ID is equal to theCartItem
that's been passed in as a parameter.id,
then that means we've found it
and we simply assign existingCartItem,
equal to that tempCartItem,
and then we break out of the loop.
So then we just check to see if we've found it.
So we assign this boolean alreadyExistsInCart
is equal to existingCartItem is not equal to undefined.
So it'll have a value of true or false,
depending on if we found it or not.
And that's the basic, basic coding here
for this add to cart.
Alright, and let's add some more code here to this method.
So if alreadyExistsInCart, then let's simply increment
the quantity of that item.
So we say existingCartItem.quantity++.
Else we just add the item to the array.
So this.cartItems.push theCartItem.
And then the final thing we'll do in this method
is it will compute the cart total price and total quantity.
And I'll have a helper method to help us out with this.
So I'll call this.computeCartTotals.
And then we simply use the IDE
to declare this method for us.